### Maddy Kapfhammer is a current senior at Allegheny College earning her Bachelor of Science in both Biology and Computer Science

Maddy found a distinct interest in infectious disease after taking a Disease Ecology class with Dr. Matthew Venesky during her junior year at Allegheny. With this interest, she found the field of epidemiological disease modeling, that allows individuals to understanding the trajectory and make predictions of distinct disease systems. Disease models can be very complex, and are often computer programmed, which peaked her interest even more.

_"As a student in Computer Science I was able to quickly understand how to use programming languages to implement disease models, something that I found to be difficult for my peers who were only studying Biology. I created VIRALL to bridge the gap between programming and Biology education, making the generation of disease models accessible for all"_

## Why VIRALL?

As new infectious diseases are emerging quickly, so is the need for disease control, causing disease ecologists, epidemiologists, biostatisticians, researchers in health in- formatics, and biological data scientists to shift their focus to characterizing disease outbreaks. These officials frequently begin their journey in public health with undergraduate programs in the biological sciences, and then require specialized training in masters and PhD programs to learn the multi-faceted field of disease transmission modeling. It is often the case that biology undergraduate programs do not have curriculum that focuses on dynamic programming methods. As a result, the computational methods relating to disease dynamics and epidemiology are often not taught to students in undergraduate programs. With most undergraduate students not having the opportunity to learn about the interconnectedness between disease modeling and programming, shaping professionals who can understand and create dynamic disease transmission models is becoming substantially more difficult, a problem that should not be encountered as infectious disease prevalence is exponentially increasing. Without exposure to computational methods in undergraduate programs, students are left with a chasm of knowledge when learning about infectious diseases, a field that is consistently increasing in importance. VIRALL is a software tool created to bridge the gap between student knowledge of disease transmission, and programming complex disease system models.